#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\begin_preamble
% This file was converted from HTML to LaTeX with
% gnuhtml2latex program
% (c) Tomasz Wegrzanowski <maniek@beer.com> 1999
% (c) Gunnar Wolf <gwolf@gwolf.org> 2005-2010
% Version : 0.4.
\usepackage{fmtcount}
\usepackage{graphicx}

\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{ \markboth{\textsc{#1}}{} }
%\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{ \markboth{#1}{} }
\makepagestyle{myheadings}
%  \makeevenhead{myheadings}{\thepage}{\textsc{\chaptername\ \Numberstringnum{\thechapter}}}{}
  \makeevenhead{myheadings}{}{\textsc{\chaptername\ \thechapter}}{}
  \makeoddhead{myheadings}{}{\leftmark}{}
%  \makeheadrule{myheadings}{\textwidth}{0.4pt}
  \makeevenfoot{myheadings}{\thepage}{}{}
  \makeoddfoot{myheadings}{}{}{\thepage}

\makechapterstyle{hpmor}{%
  \chapterstyle{default}
  \renewcommand*{\chapterheadstart}{}
  \renewcommand*{\chapnumfont}{\normalfont}
  \renewcommand*{\printchaptername}{%
%     \centerline{\chapnumfont \textsc{\chaptername\ \Numberstringnum{\thechapter}}}}
     \centerline{\chapnumfont \textsc{\chaptername\ \thechapter}}}
  \renewcommand*{\chapternamenum}{}
  \renewcommand*{\printchapternum}{}
  \renewcommand*{\afterchapternum}{%
    \par\centerline{\parbox{0.5in}{\hrulefill}}\par}
  \renewcommand*{\printchapternonum}{%
    \vphantom{\chapnumfont \@chapapp 1}\par
    \parbox{0.5in}{}\par}
  \renewcommand*{\chaptitlefont}{\normalfont\LARGE\sffamily}
  \renewcommand*{\printchaptertitle}[1]{%
    \centering \chaptitlefont\textsc{##1}}}
  \renewcommand*{\afterchaptertitle}{\par\vspace\par}
\chapterstyle{hpmor}

\usepackage{lettrine}
\usepackage{changepage} %per cambiare la dimensione del paragrafo
\usepackage{xcolor} %per il titolo in rosso
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em} %per alcuni problemi di hyphenation
\usepackage{shapepar} %paragrafi con una certa forma
\usepackage{url}%url lunga
\renewcommand*{\parttitlefont}{\normalfont\HUGE\sffamily}

\makeatletter
\renewcommand\part{%
  \if@openright
    \cleardoublepage
  \else
    \clearpage
  \fi
  \thispagestyle{empty}%
  \if@twocolumn
    \onecolumn
    \@tempswatrue
  \else
    \@tempswafalse
  \fi
  \null\vfil
  \secdef\@part\@spart}
\makeatother
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding default
\font_roman Minion Pro
\font_sans Myriad Pro
\font_typewriter Inconsolata
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf4
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 0
\use_mathdots 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 2.345cm
\topmargin 3.34cm
\rightmargin 3.517cm
\bottommargin 5.08cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle myheadings
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
The Simple Truth
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:The-Simple-Truth"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
“I remember this paper I wrote on existentialism.
 My teacher gave it back with an F.
 She'd underlined true and truth wherever it appeared in the essay, probably
 about twenty times, with a question mark beside each.
 She wanted to know what I meant by truth.”
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 --- Danielle Egan (journalist) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*

\emph on
Author's Foreword
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This essay is meant to restore a naive view of truth.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Someone says to you: “My miracle snake oil can rid you of lung cancer in
 just three weeks.” You reply: “Didn't a clinical study show this claim to
 be untrue?” The one returns: “This notion of `truth' is quite naive; what
 do you mean by `true'?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Many people, so questioned, don't know how to answer in exquisitely rigorous
 detail.
 Nonetheless they would not be wise to abandon the concept of `truth'.
 There was a time when no one knew the equations of gravity in exquisitely
 rigorous detail, yet if you walked off a cliff, you would fall.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Often I have seen -- especially on Internet mailing lists -- that amidst
 other conversation, someone says “X is true“, and then an argument breaks
 out over the use of the word `true'.
 This essay is 
\shape italic
not
\shape default
 meant as an encyclopedic reference for that argument.
 Rather, I hope the arguers will read this essay, and then go back to whatever
 they were discussing before someone questioned the nature of truth.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this essay I pose questions.
 If you see what seems like a really obvious answer, it's probably the answer
 I intend.
 The obvious choice isn't 
\shape italic
always
\shape default
 the best choice, but sometimes, by golly, it 
\shape italic
is
\shape default
.
 I don't stop looking as soon I find an obvious answer, but if I go on looking,
 and the obvious-seeming answer 
\shape italic
still
\shape default
 seems obvious, I don't feel guilty about keeping it.
 Oh, sure, everyone 
\shape italic
thinks
\shape default
 two plus two is four, everyone 
\shape italic
says
\shape default
 two plus two is four, and in the mere mundane drudgery of everyday life
 everyone 
\shape italic
behaves
\shape default
 as if two plus two is four, but what does two plus two 
\shape italic
really, ultimately
\shape default
 equal? As near as I can figure, four.
 It's still four even if I intone the question in a solemn, portentous tone
 of voice.
 Too simple, you say? Maybe, on this occasion, life doesn't 
\shape italic
need
\shape default
 to be complicated.
 Wouldn't that be refreshing? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you are one of those fortunate folk to whom the question seems trivial
 at the outset, I hope it still seems trivial at the finish.
 If you find yourself stumped by deep and meaningful questions, remember
 that if you know exactly how a system works, and could build one yourself
 out of buckets and pebbles, it should not be a mystery to you.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If confusion threatens when you interpret a metaphor as a metaphor, try
 taking everything 
\shape italic
completely literally.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
The Simple Truth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang italian
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
lettrine[lines=1]{I}{magine that in an era}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\lang english
 before recorded history or formal mathematics, I am a shepherd and I have
 trouble tracking my sheep.
 My sheep sleep in an enclosure, a fold; and the enclosure is high enough
 to guard my sheep from wolves that roam by night.
 Each day I must release my sheep from the fold to pasture and graze; each
 night I must find my sheep and return them to the fold.
 If a sheep is left outside, I will find its body the next morning, killed
 and half-eaten by wolves.
 But it is so discouraging, to scour the fields for hours, looking for one
 last sheep, when I know that probably all the sheep are in the fold.
 Sometimes I give up early, and usually I get away with it; but around a
 tenth of the time there is a dead sheep the next morning.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If only there were some way to divine whether sheep are still grazing, without
 the inconvenience of looking! I try several methods: I toss the divination
 sticks of my tribe; I train my psychic powers to locate sheep through clairvoya
nce; I search carefully for reasons to believe all the sheep are in the
 fold.
 It makes no difference.
 Around a tenth of the times I turn in early, I find a dead sheep the next
 morning.
 Perhaps I realize that my methods aren't working, and perhaps I carefully
 excuse each failure; but my dilemma is still the same.
 I can spend an hour searching every possible nook and cranny, when most
 of the time there are no remaining sheep; or I can go to sleep early and
 lose, on the average, one-tenth of a sheep.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Late one afternoon I feel especially tired.
 I toss the divination sticks and the divination sticks say that all the
 sheep have returned.
 I visualize each nook and cranny, and I don't imagine scrying any sheep.
 I'm still not confident enough, so I look inside the fold and it seems
 like there are a lot of sheep, and I review my earlier efforts and decide
 that I was especially diligent.
 This dissipates my anxiety, and I go to sleep.
 The next morning I discover 
\shape italic
two
\shape default
 dead sheep.
 Something inside me snaps, and I begin thinking creatively.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That day, loud hammering noises come from the gate of the sheepfold's enclosure.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The next morning, I open the gate of the enclosure only a little way, and
 as each sheep passes out of the enclosure, I drop a pebble into a bucket
 nailed up next to the door.
 In the afternoon, as each returning sheep passes by, I take one pebble
 out of the bucket.
 When there are no pebbles left in the bucket, I can stop searching and
 turn in for the night.
 It is a 
\shape italic
brilliant
\shape default
 notion.
 It will revolutionize shepherding.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That was the theory.
 In practice, it took considerable refinement before the method worked reliably.
 Several times I searched for hours and didn't find any sheep, and the next
 morning there were no stragglers.
 On each of these occasions it required deep thought to figure out where
 my bucket system had failed.
 On returning from one fruitless search, I thought back and realized that
 the bucket already contained pebbles when I started; this, it turned out,
 was a bad idea.
 Another time I randomly tossed pebbles into the bucket, to amuse myself,
 between the morning and the afternoon; this too was a bad idea, as I realized
 after searching for a few hours.
 But I practiced my pebblecraft, and became a reasonably proficient pebblecrafte
r.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One afternoon, a man richly attired in white robes, leafy laurels, sandals,
 and business suit trudges in along the sandy trail that leads to my pastures.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Can I help you?” I inquire.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The man takes a badge from his coat and flips it open, proving beyond the
 shadow of a doubt that he is Markos Sophisticus Maximus, a delegate from
 the Senate of Rum.
 (One might wonder whether another could steal the badge; but so great is
 the power of these badges that if any other were to use them, they would
 in that instant be 
\shape italic
transformed
\shape default
 into Markos.) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Call me Mark,” he says.
 “I'm here to confiscate the magic pebbles, in the name of the Senate; artifacts
 of such great power must not fall into ignorant hands.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“That bleedin' apprentice,” I grouse under my breath, “he's been yakkin'
 to the villagers again.” Then I look at Mark's stern face, and sigh.
 “They aren't magic pebbles,” I say aloud.
 “Just ordinary stones I picked up from the ground.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A flicker of confusion crosses Mark's face, then he brightens again.
 “I'm here for the magic bucket!” he declares.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It's not a magic bucket,” I say wearily.
 “I used to keep dirty socks in it.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark's face is puzzled.
 “Then where is the magic?” he demands.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An interesting question.
 “It's hard to explain,” I say.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My current apprentice, Autrey, attracted by the commotion, wanders over
 and volunteers his explanation: “It's the level of pebbles in the bucket,”
 Autrey says.
 “There's a magic level of pebbles, and you have to get the level just right,
 or it doesn't work.
 If you throw in more pebbles, or take some out, the bucket won't be at
 the magic level anymore.
 Right now, the magic level is,” Autrey peers into the bucket, “about one-third
 full.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I see!” Mark says excitedly.
 From his back pocket Mark takes out his own bucket, and a heap of pebbles.
 Then he grabs a few handfuls of pebbles, and stuffs them into the bucket.
 Then Mark looks into the bucket, noting how many pebbles are there.
 “There we go,” Mark says, “the magic level of this bucket is half full.
 Like that?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“No!” Autrey says sharply.
 “Half full is not the magic level.
 The magic level is about one-third.
 Half full is definitely unmagic.
 Furthermore, you're using the wrong bucket.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark turns to me, puzzled.
 “I thought you said the bucket wasn't magic?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It's not,” I say.
 A sheep passes out through the gate, and I toss another pebble into the
 bucket.
 “Besides, I'm watching the sheep.
 Talk to Autrey.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark dubiously eyes the pebble I tossed in, but decides to temporarily shelve
 the question.
 Mark turns to Autrey and draws himself up haughtily.
 “It's a free country,” Mark says, “under the benevolent dictatorship of
 the Senate, of course.
 I can drop whichever pebbles I like into whatever bucket I like.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey considers this.
 “No you can't,” he says finally, “there won't be any magic.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Look,” says Mark patiently, “I watched you carefully.
 You looked in your bucket, checked the level of pebbles, and called that
 the magic level.
 I did exactly the same thing.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“That's not how it works,” says Autrey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Oh, I see,” says Mark, “It's not the level of pebbles in 
\shape italic
my
\shape default
 bucket that's magic, it's the level of pebbles in 
\shape italic
your
\shape default
 bucket.
 Is that what you claim? What makes your bucket so much better than mine,
 huh?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Well,” says Autrey, “if we were to empty your bucket, and then pour all
 the pebbles from my bucket into your bucket, then your bucket would have
 the magic level.
 There's also a procedure we can use to check if your bucket has the magic
 level, if we know that my bucket has the magic level; we call that a bucket
 compare operation.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another sheep passes, and I toss in another pebble.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“He just tossed in another pebble!” Mark says.
 “And I suppose you claim the new level is also magic? I could toss pebbles
 into your bucket until the level was the same as mine, and then our buckets
 would agree.
 You're just comparing my bucket to your bucket to determine whether 
\shape italic
you
\shape default
 think the level is `magic' or not.
 Well, I think 
\shape italic
your
\shape default
 bucket isn't magic, because it doesn't have the same level of pebbles as
 mine.
 So there!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Wait,” says Autrey, “you don't understand --” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“By `magic level', you mean simply the level of pebbles in your own bucket.
 And when I say `magic level', I mean the level of pebbles in my bucket.
 Thus you look at my bucket and say it 'isn't magic', but the word `magic'
 means different things to different people.
 You need to specify 
\shape italic
whose
\shape default
 magic it is.
 You should say that my bucket doesn't have 'Autrey's magic level', and
 I say that your bucket doesn't have 'Mark's magic level'.
 That way, the apparent contradiction goes away.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“But --” says Autrey helplessly.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Different people can have different buckets with different levels of pebbles,
 which proves this business about `magic' is completely arbitrary and subjective.
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Mark,” I say, “did anyone tell you what these pebbles 
\shape italic
do?
\shape default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\shape italic
Do?
\shape default
” says Mark.
 “I thought they were just magic.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“If the pebbles didn't do anything,” says Autrey, “our ISO 9000 process
 efficiency auditor would eliminate the procedure from our daily work.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“What's your auditor's name?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Darwin,” says Autrey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Hm,” says Mark.
 “Charles does have a reputation as a strict auditor.
 So do the pebbles bless the flocks, and cause the increase of sheep?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“No,” I say.
 “The virtue of the pebbles is this; if we look into the bucket and see
 the bucket is empty of pebbles, we know the pastures are likewise empty
 of sheep.
 If we do not use the bucket, we must search and search until dark, lest
 one last sheep remain.
 Or if we stop our work early, then sometimes the next morning we find a
 dead sheep, for the wolves savage any sheep left outside.
 If we look in the bucket, we know when all the sheep are home, and we can
 retire without fear.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark considers this.
 “That sounds rather implausible,” he says eventually.
 “Did you consider using divination sticks? Divination sticks are infallible,
 or at least, anyone who says they are fallible is burned at the stake.
 This is an extremely painful way to die; it follows that divination sticks
 are infallible.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You're welcome to use divination sticks if you like,” I say.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Oh, good heavens, of course not,” says Mark.
 “They work infallibly, with absolute perfection on every occasion, as befits
 such blessed instruments; but what if there were a dead sheep the next
 morning? I only use the divination sticks when there is no possibility
 of their being proven wrong.
 Otherwise I might be burned alive.
 So how does your magic bucket work?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How does the bucket work\SpecialChar \ldots{}
? I'd better start with the simplest possible case.
 “Well,” I say, “suppose the pastures are empty, and the bucket isn't empty.
 Then we'll waste hours looking for a sheep that isn't there.
 And if there are sheep in the pastures, but the bucket is empty, then Autrey
 and I will turn in too early, and we'll find dead sheep the next morning.
 So an empty bucket is magical if and only if the pastures are empty --”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Hold on,” says Autrey.
 “That sounds like a vacuous tautology to me.
 Aren't an empty bucket and empty pastures obviously the same thing?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It's not vacuous,” I say.
 “Here's an analogy: The logician Alfred Tarski once said that the assertion
 `Snow is white' is true if and only if snow is white.
 If you can understand that, you should be able to see why an empty bucket
 is magical if and only if the pastures are empty of sheep.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Hold on,” says Mark.
 “These are 
\shape italic
buckets
\shape default
.
 They don't have anything to do with 
\shape italic
sheep
\shape default
.
 Buckets and sheep are obviously completely different.
 There's no way the sheep can ever interact with the bucket.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Then where do 
\shape italic
you
\shape default
 think the magic comes from?” inquires Autrey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark considers.
 “You said you could compare two buckets to check if they had the same level\SpecialChar \ldots{}

 I can see how buckets can interact with buckets.
 Maybe when you get a large collection of buckets, and they all have the
 same level, 
\shape italic
that's
\shape default
 what generates the magic.
 I'll call that the coherentist theory of magic buckets.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Interesting,” says Autrey.
 “I know that my master is working on a system with multiple buckets --
 he says it might work better because of `redundancy' and `error correction'.
 That sounds like coherentism to me.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“They're not quite the same --” I start to say.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Let's test the coherentism theory of magic,” says Autrey.
 “I can see you've got five more buckets in your back pocket.
 I'll hand you the bucket we're using, and then you can fill up your other
 buckets to the same level --” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark recoils in horror.
 “Stop! These buckets have been passed down in my family for generations,
 and they've always had the same level! If I accept your bucket, my bucket
 collection will become less coherent, and the magic will go away!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“But your 
\shape italic
current
\shape default
 buckets don't have anything to do with the sheep!” protests Autrey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark looks exasperated.
 “Look, I've explained before, there's obviously no way that sheep can interact
 with buckets.
 Buckets can only interact with other buckets.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I toss in a pebble whenever a sheep passes,” I point out.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“When a sheep passes, you toss in a pebble?” Mark says.
 “What does that have to do with anything?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It's an interaction between the sheep and the pebbles,” I reply.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“No, it's an interaction between the pebbles and 
\shape italic
you
\shape default
,” Mark says.
 “The magic doesn't come from the sheep, it comes from 
\shape italic
you
\shape default
.
 Mere sheep are obviously nonmagical.
 The magic has to come from 
\shape italic
somewhere
\shape default
, on the way to the bucket.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I point at a wooden mechanism perched on the gate.
 “Do you see that flap of cloth hanging down from that wooden contraption?
 We're still fiddling with that -- it doesn't work reliably -- but when
 sheep pass through, they disturb the cloth.
 When the cloth moves aside, a pebble drops out of a reservoir and falls
 into the bucket.
 That way, Autrey and I won't have to toss in the pebbles ourselves.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark furrows his brow.
 “I don't quite follow you\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 is the 
\shape italic
cloth
\shape default
 magical?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I shrug.
 “I ordered it online from a company called Natural Selections.
 The fabric is called Sensory Modality.” I pause, seeing the incredulous
 expressions of Mark and Autrey.
 “I admit the names are a bit New Agey.
 The point is that a passing sheep triggers a chain of cause and effect
 that ends with a pebble in the bucket.
 
\shape italic
Afterward
\shape default
 you can compare the bucket to other buckets, and so on.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I still don't get it,” Mark says.
 “You can't fit a sheep into a bucket.
 Only pebbles go in buckets, and it's obvious that pebbles only interact
 with other pebbles.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“The sheep interact with things that interact with pebbles\SpecialChar \ldots{}
” I search for
 an analogy.
 “Suppose you look down at your shoelaces.
 A photon leaves the Sun; then travels down through Earth's atmosphere;
 then bounces off your shoelaces; then passes through the pupil of your
 eye; then strikes the retina; then is absorbed by a rod or a cone.
 The photon's energy makes the attached neuron fire, which causes other
 neurons to fire.
 A neural activation pattern in your visual cortex can interact with your
 beliefs about your shoelaces, since beliefs about shoelaces also exist
 in neural substrate.
 If you can understand that, you should be able to see how a passing sheep
 causes a pebble to enter the bucket.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“At exactly 
\shape italic
which
\shape default
 point in the process does the pebble become magic?” says Mark.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 um\SpecialChar \ldots{}
” Now 
\shape italic
I'm
\shape default
 starting to get confused.
 I shake my head to clear away cobwebs.
 This all seemed simple enough when I woke up this morning, and the pebble-and-b
ucket system hasn't gotten any more complicated since then.
 “This is a lot easier to understand if you remember that the 
\shape italic
point
\shape default
 of the system is to keep track of sheep.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark sighs sadly.
 “Never mind\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 it's obvious you don't know.
 Maybe all pebbles are magical to start with, even before they enter the
 bucket.
 We could call that position panpebblism.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Ha!” Autrey says, scorn rich in his voice.
 “Mere wishful thinking! Not all pebbles are created equal.
 The pebbles in 
\shape italic
your
\shape default
 bucket are 
\shape italic
not
\shape default
 magical.
 They're only lumps of stone!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark's face turns stern.
 “Now,” he cries, “now you see the danger of the road you walk! Once you
 say that some people's pebbles are magical and some are not, your pride
 will consume you! You will think yourself superior to all others, and so
 fall! Many throughout history have tortured and murdered because they thought
 their own pebbles supreme!” A tinge of condescension enters Mark's voice.
 “Worshipping a level of pebbles as `magical' implies that there's an absolute
 pebble level in a Supreme Bucket.
 Nobody believes in a Supreme Bucket these days.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“One,” I say.
 “Sheep are not absolute pebbles.
 Two, I don't think my bucket actually contains the sheep.
 Three, I don't worship my bucket level as perfect -- I adjust it sometimes
 -- and I do that 
\shape italic
because
\shape default
 I care about the sheep.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Besides,” says Autrey, “someone who believes that possessing absolute pebbles
 
\shape italic
would
\shape default
 license torture and murder, is making a mistake that has nothing to do
 with buckets.
 You're solving the wrong problem.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark calms himself down.
 “I suppose I can't expect any better from mere shepherds.
 You probably believe that snow is white, don't you.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Um\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 yes?” says Autrey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It doesn't bother you that 
\shape italic
Joseph Stalin
\shape default
 believed that snow is white?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Um\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 no?” says Autrey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark gazes incredulously at Autrey, and finally shrugs.
 “Let's suppose, purely for the sake of argument, that your pebbles are
 magical and mine aren't.
 Can you tell me what the difference is?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“My pebbles 
\shape italic
represent
\shape default
 the sheep!” Autrey says triumphantly.
 “
\shape italic
Your
\shape default
 pebbles don't have the representativeness property, so they won't work.
 They are empty of meaning.
 Just look at them.
 There's no aura of semantic content; they are merely pebbles.
 You need a bucket with special causal powers.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Ah!” Mark says.
 “Special causal powers, instead of magic.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Exactly,” says Autrey.
 “I'm not superstitious.
 Postulating magic, in this day and age, would be unacceptable to the internatio
nal shepherding community.
 We have found that postulating magic simply doesn't work as an explanation
 for shepherding phenomena.
 So when I see something I don't understand, and I want to explain it using
 a model with no internal detail that makes no predictions even in retrospect,
 I postulate special causal powers.
 If that doesn't work, I'll move on to calling it an emergent phenomenon.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“What kind of special powers does the bucket have?” asks Mark.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Hm,” says Autrey.
 “Maybe this bucket is imbued with an 
\shape italic
about-ness
\shape default
 relation to the pastures.
 That would explain why it worked -- when the bucket is empty, it 
\shape italic
means
\shape default
 the pastures are empty.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Where did you find this bucket?” says Mark.
 “And how did you realize it had an about-ness relation to the pastures?”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It's an 
\shape italic
ordinary bucket
\shape default
,” I say.
 “I used to climb trees with it\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 I don't think this question 
\shape italic
needs
\shape default
 to be difficult.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I'm talking to Autrey,” says Mark.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You have to bind the bucket to the pastures, and the pebbles to the sheep,
 using a magical ritual -- pardon me, an emergent process with special causal
 powers -- that my master discovered,” Autrey explains.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey then attempts to describe the ritual, with Mark nodding along in
 sage comprehension.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You have to throw in a pebble 
\shape italic
every
\shape default
 time a sheep leaves through the gate?” says Mark.
 “Take out a pebble 
\shape italic
every
\shape default
 time a sheep returns?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey nods.
 “Yeah.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“That must be really hard,” Mark says sympathetically.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey brightens, soaking up Mark's sympathy like rain.
 “Exactly!” says Autrey.
 “It's 
\shape italic
extremely
\shape default
 hard on your emotions.
 When the bucket has held its level for a while, you\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 tend to get attached
 to that level.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A sheep passes then, leaving through the gate.
 Autrey sees; he stoops, picks up a pebble, holds it aloft in the air.
 “Behold!” Autrey proclaims.
 “A sheep has passed! I must now toss a pebble into this bucket, my dear
 bucket, and destroy that fond level which has held for so long --” Another
 sheep passes.
 Autrey, caught up in his drama, misses it; so I plunk a pebble into the
 bucket.
 Autrey is still speaking: “-- for that is the supreme test of the shepherd,
 to throw in the pebble, be it ever so agonizing, be the old level ever
 so precious.
 Indeed, only the best of shepherds can meet a requirement so stern --”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Autrey,” I say, “if you want to be a great shepherd someday, learn to shut
 up and throw in the pebble.
 No fuss.
 No drama.
 Just do it.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And this ritual,” says Mark, “it binds the pebbles to the sheep by the
 magical laws of Sympathy and Contagion, like a voodoo doll.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey winces and looks around.
 “Please! Don't call it Sympathy and Contagion.
 We shepherds are an anti-superstitious folk.
 Use the word `intentionality', or something like that.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Can I look at a pebble?” says Mark.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Sure,” I say.
 I take one of the pebbles out of the bucket, and toss it to Mark.
 Then I reach to the ground, pick up another pebble, and drop it into the
 bucket.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey looks at me, puzzled.
 “Didn't you just mess it up?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I shrug.
 “I don't think so.
 We'll know I messed it up if there's a dead sheep next morning, or if we
 search for a few hours and don't find any sheep.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“But --” Autrey says.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I taught you everything 
\shape italic
you
\shape default
 know, but I haven't taught you everything 
\emph on
I
\emph default
 know,” I say.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark is examining the pebble, staring at it intently.
 He holds his hand over the pebble and mutters a few words, then shakes
 his head.
 “I don't sense any magical power,” he says.
 “Pardon me.
 I don't sense any intentionality.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“A pebble only has intentionality if it's inside a ma- an emergent bucket,”
 says Autrey.
 “Otherwise it's just a mere pebble.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Not a problem,” I say.
 I take a pebble out of the bucket, and toss it away.
 Then I walk over to where Mark stands, tap his hand holding a pebble, and
 say: “I declare this hand to be part of the magic bucket!” Then I resume
 my post at the gates.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey laughs.
 “Now you're just being gratuitously evil.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I nod, for this is indeed the case.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Is that really going to work, though?” says Autrey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I nod again, hoping that I'm right.
 I've done this before with two buckets, and in principle, there should
 be no difference between Mark's hand and a bucket.
 Even if Mark's hand is imbued with the 
\shape italic
elan vital
\shape default
 that distinguishes live matter from dead matter, the trick should work
 as well as if Mark were a marble statue.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark is looking at his hand, a bit unnerved.
 “So\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 the pebble has intentionality again, now?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Yep,” I say.
 “Don't add any more pebbles to your hand, or throw away the one you have,
 or you'll break the ritual.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark nods solemnly.
 Then he resumes inspecting the pebble.
 “I understand now how your flocks grew so great,” Mark says.
 “With the power of this bucket, you could keep in tossing pebbles, and
 the sheep would keep returning from the fields.
 You could start with just a few sheep, let them leave, then fill the bucket
 to the brim before they returned.
 And if tending so many sheep grew tedious, you could let them all leave,
 then empty almost all the pebbles from the bucket, so that only a few returned\SpecialChar \ldots{}

 increasing the flocks again when it came time for shearing\SpecialChar \ldots{}
dear heavens,
 man! Do you realize the sheer 
\shape italic
power
\shape default
 of this ritual you've discovered? I can only imagine the implications;
 humankind might leap ahead a decade -- no, a century!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It doesn't work that way,” I say.
 “If you add a pebble when a sheep hasn't left, or remove a pebble when
 a sheep hasn't come in, that breaks the ritual.
 The power does not linger in the pebbles, but vanishes all at once, like
 a soap bubble popping.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark's face is terribly disappointed.
 “Are you sure?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I nod.
 “I tried that and it didn't work.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark sighs heavily.
 “And this\SpecialChar \ldots{}

\shape italic
 math
\shape default
\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 seemed so powerful and useful until then\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 Oh, well.
 So much for human progress.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Mark, it was a 
\shape italic
brilliant
\shape default
 idea,” Autrey says encouragingly.
 “The notion didn't occur to me, and yet it's so obvious\SpecialChar \ldots{}
it would save an
 
\shape italic
enormous
\shape default
 amount of effort\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 there 
\shape italic
must
\shape default
 be a way to salvage your plan! We could try different buckets, looking
 for one that would keep the magical pow-- the intentionality in the pebbles,
 even without the ritual.
 Or try other pebbles.
 Maybe our pebbles just have the wrong properties to have 
\shape italic
inherent
\shape default
 intentionality.
 What if we tried it using stones carved to resemble tiny sheep? Or just
 write `sheep' on the pebbles; that might be enough.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Not going to work,” I predict dryly.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey continues.
 “Maybe we need organic pebbles, instead of silicon pebbles\SpecialChar \ldots{}
or maybe we need
 to use expensive gemstones.
 The price of gemstones doubles every eighteen months, so you could buy
 a handful of cheap gemstones now, and wait, and in twenty years they'd
 be really expensive.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You tried adding pebbles to create more sheep, and it didn't work?” Mark
 asks me.
 “What exactly did you do?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I took a handful of dollar bills.
 Then I hid the dollar bills under a fold of my blanket, one by one; each
 time I hid another bill, I took another paperclip from a box, making a
 small heap.
 I was careful not to keep track in my head, so that all I knew was that
 there were `many' dollar bills, and `many' paperclips.
 Then when all the bills were hidden under my blanket, I added a single
 additional paperclip to the heap, the equivalent of tossing an extra pebble
 into the bucket.
 Then I started taking dollar bills from under the fold, and putting the
 paperclips back into the box.
 When I finished, a single paperclip was left over.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“What does that result mean?” asks Autrey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It means the trick didn't work.
 Once I broke ritual by that single misstep, the power did not linger, but
 vanished instantly; the heap of paperclips and the pile of dollar bills
 no longer went empty at the same time.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You 
\shape italic
actually
\shape default
 tried this?” asks Mark.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Yes,” I say, “I actually performed the experiment, to verify that the outcome
 matched my theoretical prediction.
 I have a sentimental fondness for the scientific method, even when it seems
 absurd.
 Besides, what if I'd been wrong?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“If it 
\shape italic
had
\shape default
 worked,” says Mark, “you would have been guilty of counterfeiting! Imagine
 if everyone did that; the economy would collapse! Everyone would have billions
 of dollars of currency, yet there would be nothing for money to buy!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Not at all,” I reply.
 “By that same logic whereby adding another paperclip to the heap creates
 another dollar bill, creating another dollar bill would create an additional
 dollar's worth of goods and services.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark shakes his head.
 “Counterfeiting is still a crime\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 You should not have tried.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I was 
\shape italic
reasonably
\shape default
 confident I would fail.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Aha!” says Mark.
 “You 
\shape italic
expected
\shape default
 to fail! You didn't 
\shape italic
believe
\shape default
 you could do it!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Indeed,” I admit.
 “You have guessed my expectations with stunning accuracy.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Well, that's the problem,” Mark says briskly.
 “Magic is fueled by belief and willpower.
 If you don't believe you can do it, you can't.
 You need to change your belief about the experimental result; that will
 change the result itself.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Funny,” I say nostalgically, “that's what Autrey said when I told him about
 the pebble-and-bucket method.
 That it was too ridiculous for him to believe, so it wouldn't work for
 him.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“How did you persuade him?” inquires Mark.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I told him to shut up and follow instructions,” I say, “and when the method
 worked, Autrey started believing in it.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark frowns, puzzled.
 “That makes no sense.
 It doesn't resolve the essential chicken-and-egg dilemma.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Sure it does.
 The bucket method works whether or not you believe in it.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“That's 
\shape italic
absurd!
\shape default
” sputters Mark.
 “I don't believe in magic that works whether or not you believe in it!”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I said that too,” chimes in Autrey.
 “Apparently I was wrong.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark screws up his face in concentration.
 “But\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 if you didn't believe in magic that works whether or not you believe
 in it, then why did the bucket method work when you didn't believe in it?
 Did you believe in magic that works whether or not you believe in it whether
 or not you believe in magic that works whether or not you believe in it?”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I don't\SpecialChar \ldots{}

\shape italic
 think
\shape default
 so\SpecialChar \ldots{}
” says Autrey doubtfully.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Then if you didn't believe in magic that works whether or not you\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 hold
 on a second, I need to work this out on paper and pencil
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Mark scribbles frantically, looks skeptically at the result, turns the
 piece of paper upside down, then gives up.
 “Never mind,” says Mark.
 “Magic is difficult enough for me to comprehend; metamagic is out of my
 depth.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Mark, I don't think you understand the art of bucketcraft,” I say.
 “It's not about using pebbles to control sheep.
 It's about making sheep control pebbles.
 In this art, it is not necessary to begin by believing the art will work.
 Rather, first the art works, then one comes to believe that it works.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Or so you believe,” says Mark.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“So I believe,” I reply, “
\shape italic
because
\shape default
 it happens to be a fact.
 The correspondence between reality and my beliefs comes from reality controllin
g my beliefs, not the other way around.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another sheep passes, causing me to toss in another pebble.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Ah! Now we come to the root of the problem,” says Mark.
 “What's this so-called `reality' business? I understand what it means for
 a hypothesis to be elegant, or falsifiable, or compatible with the evidence.
 It sounds to me like calling a belief `true' or `real' or `actual' is merely
 the difference between saying you believe something, and saying you really
 really believe something.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I pause.
 “Well\SpecialChar \ldots{}
” I say slowly.
 “Frankly, I'm not entirely sure myself where this `reality' business comes
 from.
 I can't create my own reality in the lab, so I must not understand it yet.
 But occasionally I believe strongly that something is going to happen,
 and then something else happens instead.
 I need a name for whatever-it-is that determines my experimental results,
 so I call it `reality'.
 This `reality' is somehow separate from even my very best hypotheses.
 Even when I have a simple hypothesis, strongly supported by all the evidence
 I know, sometimes I'm still surprised.
 So I need different names for the thingies that determine my predictions
 and the thingy that determines my experimental results.
 I call the former thingies `belief', and the latter thingy `reality'.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark snorts.
 “I don't even know why I bother listening to this obvious nonsense.
 Whatever you say about this so-called `reality', it is merely another belief.
 Even your belief that reality precedes your beliefs is a belief.
 It follows, as a logical inevitability, that reality does not exist; only
 beliefs exist.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Hold on,” says Autrey, “could you repeat that last part? You lost me with
 that sharp swerve there in the middle.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“No matter what you say about reality, it's just another belief,” explains
 Mark.
 “It follows with crushing necessity that there is no reality, only beliefs.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I see,” I say.
 “The same way that no matter what you eat, you need to eat it with your
 mouth.
 It follows that there is no food, only mouths.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Precisely,” says Mark.
 “Everything that you eat has to be in your mouth.
 How can there be food that exists outside your mouth? The thought is nonsense,
 proving that `food' is an incoherent notion.
 That's why we're all starving to death; there's no food.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey looks down at his stomach.
 “But I'm 
\shape italic
not
\shape default
 starving to death.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\shape italic
Aha!
\shape default
” shouts Mark triumphantly.
 “And how did you utter that very objection? With your 
\shape italic
mouth
\shape default
, my friend! With your 
\shape italic
mouth
\shape default
! What better demonstration could you ask that there is no food?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\shape italic
What's this about starvation?
\shape default
” demands a harsh, rasping voice from directly behind us.
 Autrey and I stay calm, having gone through this before.
 Mark leaps a foot in the air, startled almost out of his wits.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Inspector Darwin smiles tightly, pleased at achieving surprise, and makes
 a small tick on his clipboard.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Just a metaphor!” Mark says quickly.
 “You don't need to take away my mouth, or anything like that --” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\shape italic
Why
\shape default
 do you need a 
\shape italic
mouth
\shape default
 if there is no 
\shape italic
food
\shape default
?” demands Darwin angrily.
 “
\shape italic
Never mind.

\shape default
 I have no 
\shape italic
time
\shape default
 for this 
\shape italic
foolishness
\shape default
.
 I am here to inspect the 
\shape italic
sheep.”
\shape default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Flocks thriving, sir,” I say.
 “No dead sheep since January.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\shape italic
Excellent.

\shape default
 I award you 0.12 units of 
\shape italic
fitness
\shape default
.
 Now what is this 
\shape italic
person
\shape default
 doing here? Is he a necessary part of the 
\shape italic
operations?
\shape default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“As far as I can see, he would be of more use to the human species if hung
 off a hot-air balloon as ballast,” I say.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Ouch,” says Autrey mildly.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I do not 
\shape italic
care
\shape default
 about the 
\shape italic
human species
\shape default
.
 Let him speak for 
\shape italic
himself
\shape default
.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark draws himself up haughtily.
 “This mere 
\shape italic
shepherd
\shape default
,” he says, gesturing at me, “has claimed that there is such a thing as
 reality.
 This offends me, for I know with deep and abiding certainty that there
 is no truth.
 The concept of `truth' is merely a stratagem for people to impose their
 own beliefs on others.
 Every culture has a different `truth', and no culture's `truth' is superior
 to any other.
 This that I have said holds at all times in all places, and I insist that
 you agree.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Hold on a second,” says Autrey.
 “If nothing is true, why should I believe you when you say that nothing
 is true?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I didn't say that nothing is true --” says Mark.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Yes, you did,” interjects Autrey, “I heard you.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“-- I said that `truth' is an excuse used by some cultures to enforce their
 beliefs on others.
 So when you say something is `true', you mean only that it would be advantageou
s to your own social group to have it believed.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And this that you have said,” I say, “is it true?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Absolutely, positively true!” says Mark emphatically.
 “People create their own realities.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Hold on,” says Autrey, sounding puzzled again, “saying that people create
 their own realities is, logically, a completely separate issue from saying
 that there is no truth, a state of affairs I cannot even imagine coherently,
 perhaps because you still have not explained how exactly it is supposed
 to work
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“There you go again,” says Mark exasperatedly, “trying to apply your Western
 concepts of logic, rationality, reason, coherence, and self-consistency.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Great,” mutters Autrey, “now I need to add a 
\shape italic
third
\shape default
 subject heading, to keep track of this entirely separate and distinct claim
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset


\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
mbox{--”}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It's not separate,” says Mark.
 “Look, you're taking the wrong attitude by treating my statements as hypotheses
, and carefully deriving their consequences.
 You need to think of them as fully general excuses, which I apply when
 anyone says something I don't like.
 It's not so much a model of how the universe works, as a “Get Out of Jail
 Free” card.
 The 
\shape italic
key
\shape default
 is to apply the excuse 
\shape italic
selectively
\shape default
.
 When I say that there is no such thing as truth, that applies only to 
\shape italic
your
\shape default
 claim that the magic bucket works whether or not I believe in it.
 It does 
\shape italic
not
\shape default
 apply to 
\shape italic
my
\shape default
 claim that there is no such thing as truth.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Um\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 why not?” inquires Autrey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark heaves a patient sigh.
 “Autrey, do you think you're the first person to think of that question?
 To ask us how our own beliefs can be meaningful if all beliefs are meaningless?
 That's the same thing many students say when they encounter this philosophy,
 which, I'll have you know, has many adherents and an extensive literature.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“So what's the answer?” says Autrey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“We named it the `reflexivity problem',” explains Mark.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“But what's the 
\shape italic
answer
\shape default
?” persists Autrey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mark smiles condescendingly.
 “Believe me, Autrey, you're not the first person to think of such a simple
 question.
 There's no point in presenting it to us as a triumphant refutation.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“But what's the 
\shape italic
actual answer?
\shape default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Now, I'd like to move on to the issue of how logic kills cute baby seals
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\shape italic
You
\shape default
 are wasting 
\shape italic
time
\shape default
,” snaps Inspector Darwin.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Not to mention, losing track of sheep,” I say, tossing in another pebble.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Inspector Darwin looks at the two arguers, both apparently unwilling to
 give up their positions.
 “Listen,” Darwin says, more kindly now, “I have a simple notion for resolving
 your dispute.
 
\shape italic
You
\shape default
 say,” says Darwin, pointing to Mark, “that people's beliefs alter their
 personal realities.
 And 
\shape italic
you
\shape default
 fervently believe,” his finger swivels to point at Autrey, “that Mark's
 beliefs 
\shape italic
can't
\shape default
 alter reality.
 So let Mark believe really hard that he can fly, and then step off a cliff.
 Mark shall see himself fly away like a bird, and Autrey shall see him plummet
 down and go splat, and you shall both be happy.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We all pause, considering this.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It 
\shape italic
sounds
\shape default
 reasonable\SpecialChar \ldots{}
” Mark says finally.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“There's a cliff right there,” observes Inspector Darwin.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey is wearing a look of intense concentration.
 Finally he shouts: “Wait! If that were true, we would all have long since
 departed into our own private universes, in which case the other people
 here are only figments of your imagination -- there's no point in trying
 to prove anything to us --” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A long dwindling scream comes from the nearby cliff, followed by a dull
 and lonely splat.
 Inspector Darwin flips his clipboard to the page that shows the current
 gene pool and pencils in a slightly lower frequency for Mark's alleles.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey looks slightly sick.
 “Was that really necessary?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\shape italic
Necessary?
\shape default
” says Inspector Darwin, sounding puzzled.
 “It just 
\shape italic
happened
\shape default
\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 I don't quite understand your question.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Autrey and I turn back to our bucket.
 It's time to bring in the sheep.
 You wouldn't want to forget about that part.
 Otherwise what would be the point? 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
