#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fmtcount}
\usepackage{graphicx}

\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{ \markboth{\textsc{#1}}{} }
%\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{ \markboth{#1}{} }
\makepagestyle{myheadings}
%  \makeevenhead{myheadings}{\thepage}{\textsc{\chaptername\ \Numberstringnum{\thechapter}}}{}
  \makeevenhead{myheadings}{}{\textsc{\chaptername\ \thechapter}}{}
  \makeoddhead{myheadings}{}{\leftmark}{}
%  \makeheadrule{myheadings}{\textwidth}{0.4pt}
  \makeevenfoot{myheadings}{\thepage}{}{}
  \makeoddfoot{myheadings}{}{}{\thepage}

\makechapterstyle{hpmor}{%
  \chapterstyle{default}
  \renewcommand*{\chapterheadstart}{}
  \renewcommand*{\chapnumfont}{\normalfont}
  \renewcommand*{\printchaptername}{%
%     \centerline{\chapnumfont \textsc{\chaptername\ \Numberstringnum{\thechapter}}}}
     \centerline{\chapnumfont \textsc{\chaptername\ \thechapter}}}
  \renewcommand*{\chapternamenum}{}
  \renewcommand*{\printchapternum}{}
  \renewcommand*{\afterchapternum}{%
    \par\centerline{\parbox{0.5in}{\hrulefill}}\par}
  \renewcommand*{\printchapternonum}{%
    \vphantom{\chapnumfont \@chapapp 1}\par
    \parbox{0.5in}{}\par}
  \renewcommand*{\chaptitlefont}{\normalfont\LARGE\sffamily}
  \renewcommand*{\printchaptertitle}[1]{%
    \centering \chaptitlefont\textsc{##1}}}
  \renewcommand*{\afterchaptertitle}{\par\vspace\par}
\chapterstyle{hpmor}

\usepackage{fmtcount}
\usepackage{changepage} %per cambiare la dimensione del paragrafo
\usepackage{xcolor} %per il titolo in rosso
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em} %per alcuni problemi di hyphenation
\usepackage{shapepar} %paragrafi con una certa forma
\usepackage{url}%url lunga
\renewcommand*{\parttitlefont}{\normalfont\HUGE\sffamily}

\makeatletter
\renewcommand\part{%
  \if@openright
    \cleardoublepage
  \else
    \clearpage
  \fi
  \thispagestyle{empty}%
  \if@twocolumn
    \onecolumn
    \@tempswatrue
  \else
    \@tempswafalse
  \fi
  \null\vfil
  \secdef\@part\@spart}
\makeatother
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman Linux Libertine O
\font_sans Purisa
\font_typewriter Inconsolata
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf4
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 2.345cm
\topmargin 3.34cm
\rightmargin 3.517cm
\bottommargin 5.08cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle myheadings
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
How Much Evidence Does It Take?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Previously, I defined 
\emph on
evidence
\emph default
 as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

an event entangled, by links of cause and effect, with whatever you want
 to know about
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, and 
\emph on
entangled
\emph default
 as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

happening differently for different possible states of the target
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 So how much entanglement — how much evidence — is required to support a
 belief?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let's start with a question simple enough to be mathematical: how hard would
 you have to entangle yourself with the lottery
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\emph on
Lotteries: A Waste of Hope
\emph default
 (sequence 
\emph on
Challenging the Difficult
\emph default
).
\end_layout

\end_inset

 in order to win? Suppose there are seventy balls, drawn without replacement,
 and six numbers to match for the win.
 Then there are 131,115,985 possible winning combinations, hence a randomly
 selected ticket would have a 1/131,115,985 probability of winning (0.0000007%).
 To win the lottery, you would need evidence 
\emph on
selective
\emph default
 enough to visibly favor one combination over 131,115,984 alternatives.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Suppose there are some tests you can perform which discriminate, probabilistical
ly, between winning and losing lottery numbers.
 For example, you can punch a combination into a little black box that always
 beeps if the combination is the winner, and has only a 1/4 (25%) chance
 of beeping if the combination is wrong.
 In Bayesian
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\emph on
An Intuitive Explanation of Bayes' Theorem
\emph default
.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 terms, we would say the 
\emph on
likelihood ratio
\emph default
 is 4 to 1.
 This means that the box is 4 times as likely to beep when we punch in a
 correct combination, compared to how likely it is to beep for an incorrect
 combination.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are still a whole lot of possible combinations.
 If you punch in 20 incorrect combinations, the box will beep on 5 of them
 by sheer chance (on average).
 If you punch in all 131,115,985 possible combinations, then while the box
 is certain to beep for the one winning combination, it will also beep for
 32,778,996 losing combinations (on average).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So this box doesn't let you win the lottery, but it's better than nothing.
 If you used the box, your odds of winning would go from 1 in 131,115,985
 to 1 in 32,778,997.
 You've made some progress toward finding your target, the truth, within
 the huge space of possibilities.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Suppose you can use another black box to test combinations 
\emph on
twice
\emph default
, 
\emph on
independently
\emph default
.
 Both boxes are certain to beep for the winning ticket.
 But the chance of a box beeping for a losing combination is 1/4 
\emph on
independently
\emph default
 for each box; hence the chance of 
\emph on
both
\emph default
 boxes beeping for a losing combination is 1/16.
 We can say that the 
\emph on
cumulative
\emph default
 evidence, of two independent tests, has a likelihood ratio of 16:1.
 The number of losing lottery tickets that pass both tests will be (on average)
 8,194,749.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since there are 131,115,985 possible lottery tickets, you might guess that
 you need evidence whose strength is around 131,115,985 to 1 — an event,
 or series of events, which is 131,115,985 times more likely to happen for
 a winning combination than a losing combination.
 Actually, this amount of evidence would only be enough to give you an 
\emph on
even
\emph default
 chance of winning the lottery.
 Why? Because if you apply a filter of that power to 131 million losing
 tickets, there will be, on average, one losing ticket that passes the filter.
 The winning ticket will also pass the filter.
 So you'll be left with two tickets that passed the filter, only one of
 them a winner.
 50% odds of winning, if you can only buy one ticket.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A better way of viewing the problem: In the beginning, there is 1 winning
 ticket and 131,115,984 losing tickets, so your odds of winning are 1:131,115,98
4.
 If you use a single box, the odds of it beeping are 1 for a winning ticket
 and 0.25 for a losing ticket.
 So we multiply 1:131,115,984 by 1:0.25 and get 1:32,778,996.
 Adding another box of evidence multiplies the odds by 1:0.25 again, so now
 the odds are 1 winning ticket to 8,194,749 losing tickets.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is convenient to measure evidence in bits — not like bits on a hard drive,
 but mathematician's bits, which are conceptually different.
 Mathematician's bits are the logarithms, base 1/2, of probabilities.
 For example, if there are four possible outcomes A, B, C, and D, whose
 probabilities are 50%, 25%, 12.5%, and 12.5%, and I tell you the outcome
 was 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

D
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, then I have transmitted three bits of information to you, because I informed
 you of an outcome whose probability was 1/8.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It so happens that 131,115,984 is slightly less than 2 to the 27th power.
 So 14 boxes or 28 bits of evidence — an event 268,435,456:1 times more
 likely to happen if the ticket-hypothesis is true than if it is false —
 would shift the odds from 1:131,115,984 to 268,435,456:131,115,984, which
 reduces to 2:1.
 Odds of 2 to 1 mean two chances to win for each chance to lose, so the
 
\emph on
probability
\emph default
 of winning with 28 bits of evidence is 2/3.
 Adding another box, another 2 bits of evidence, would take the odds to
 8:1.
 Adding yet another two boxes would take the chance of winning to 128:1.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So if you want to license a 
\emph on
strong belief
\emph default
 that you will win the lottery — arbitrarily defined as less than a 1% probabili
ty of being wrong — 34 bits of evidence about the winning combination should
 do the trick.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In general, the rules for weighing 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

how much evidence it takes
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 follow a similar pattern: The larger the 
\emph on
space of possibilities
\emph default
 in which the hypothesis lies, or the more unlikely the hypothesis seems
 
\emph on
a priori
\emph default
 compared to its neighbors, or the more confident you wish to be, the more
 evidence you need.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You cannot defy the rules; you cannot form accurate beliefs based on inadequate
 evidence.
 Let's say you've got 10 boxes lined up in a row, and you start punching
 combinations into the boxes.
 You cannot stop on the first combination that gets beeps from all 10 boxes,
 saying, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

But the odds of that happening for a losing combination are a million to
 one! I'll just ignore those ivory-tower Bayesian rules and stop here.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 On average, 131 losing tickets will pass such a test for every winner.
 Considering the space of possibilities and the prior improbability, you
 jumped to a too-strong conclusion based on insufficient evidence.
 That's not a pointless bureaucratic regulation, it's math.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Of course, you can still 
\emph on
believe
\emph default
 based on inadequate evidence, if that is your whim; but you will not be
 able to believe 
\emph on
accurately
\emph default
.
 It is like trying to drive your car without any fuel, because you don't
 believe in the silly-dilly fuddy-duddy concept that it ought to take fuel
 to go places.
 It would be so much more 
\emph on
fun
\emph default
, and so much less expensive, if we just decided to repeal the law that
 cars need fuel.
 Isn't it just obviously better for everyone? Well, you can try, if that
 is your whim.
 You can even shut your eyes and pretend the car is moving.
 But to 
\emph on
really
\emph default
 arrive at accurate beliefs requires evidence-fuel, and the further you
 want to go, the more fuel you need.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
